.TH DENON 1 "June 2026" "denon-avr-controller 1.2.0-beta.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
denon \- command\-line controller for Denon and Marantz AVR receivers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B denon
.I command
.RI [ arguments ]
.br
.B denon
.BR \-h | \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B denon
controls Denon/Marantz AV receivers over the local network using the
receiver's built\-in HTTP/XML API.
The runtime script requires
.BR bash ;
zsh and fish support is provided through shell completion files, not by
executing
.B denon.sh
as those shells.
The receiver is discovered automatically via ARP and mDNS on first run;
the found IP is cached in
.IR ~/.cache/denon_ip .
Set
.B DENON_IP
to skip discovery.
.PP
The companion service
.B denon\-mpris
publishes the receiver as an MPRIS2 media player on the D\-Bus session bus,
enabling Plasma 6 media keys and KDE Connect relay.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Status
.TP
.BR status " [\-\-json]"
Power state, input, volume, mute, Zone 2 summary.
.TP
.BR info " [\-\-json]"
Receiver model, IP, firmware, all inputs and zone names.
.TP
.BR dashboard " [\-\-watch] [\-\-interval \fIsec\fR] [\-\-color \fIauto|always|never\fR] [\-\-unicode]"
Live full\-screen status view.
.TP
.BR dashboard\-alt " [\-\-compare\-providers|\-\-json] [\-\-provider \fIauto|direct|shell\fR] [\-\-watch] [\-\-interval \fIsec\fR] [\-\-color \fIauto|always|never\fR] [\-\-unicode|\-\-ascii]"
Experimental Python dashboard preview. The default
.B auto
provider tries direct receiver reads first and falls back to the shell provider.
.B \-\-compare\-providers
prints a one\-shot direct\-versus\-shell diagnostic comparison.
.B \-\-json
prints one serialized provider snapshot instead of rendering the terminal frame.
.B \-\-json
is one\-shot only and cannot be combined with
.B \-\-watch
or
.BR \-\-compare\-providers .
Wide terminals use two\-column panels; medium and narrow terminals use stacked
layouts. Use
.B \-\-unicode
or
.B \-\-ascii
for border style and
.B \-\-color
for ANSI color behavior.
The existing shell dashboard remains the default for
.BR dashboard .
.SS Power and volume
.TP
.BR on | off
Power on / standby.
.TP
.BI vol " db"
Set volume in dB (e.g.\&
.BR vol\ \-35 ).
Omit to print current level.
.TP
.BI up|down " n"
Step volume up or down by
.I n
(default 1).
.TP
.BR mute | unmute | toggle
Mute control.
.SS Input and modes
.TP
.BI source " name"
Select input by name.
.TP
.B sources
List all inputs.
.TP
.BR xbox | xfinity | bluray | tv | phono | heos
Shortcuts for common inputs.
.TP
.BR movie | game | music
Listening mode presets.
.TP
.B night
Toggle Night mode.
.TP
.BR "dyn\-eq on|off" ", " "dyn\-vol off|light|medium|heavy" ", " "multeq audyssey|bypass\-lr|flat|off" ", " "cinema\-eq on|off"
Audyssey EQ controls.
.TP
.BI bass|treble " level"
Tone control.
.SS HEOS and transport
.TP
.BR play | pause | stop | next | prev
Transport commands sent to the current HEOS source.
.TP
.B now
Currently playing track metadata.
.TP
.B heos \fIsubcmd\fR
Extended HEOS control:
.BR queue ,
.BR players ,
.BR groups ,
.BR browse ,
.BR search .
.SS Zone 2
.TP
.B zone2 \fIsubcmd\fR
Secondary\-zone control.
Subcommands mirror the main zone:
.BR status ,
.BR on ,
.BR off ,
.BR vol ,
.BR mute ,
.BR unmute ,
.BR source ,
.BR sources ,
.BR sleep .
.SS Utilities
.TP
.BI sleep " min"
Set sleep timer (pass
.B off
to cancel).
.TP
.B discover
Clear IP cache and re\-probe the network.
.TP
.BI setip " address"
Pin the receiver's IP and write it to the cache.
.TP
.B doctor
Check required tools and receiver connectivity.
.TP
.B snapshot / diff \fIa\fR \fIb\fR
Save receiver state to JSON; compare two snapshots.
.TP
.B profile \fBlist|save|restore|delete\fR
Manage named receiver\-state profiles.
.TP
.B data \fBfields|summary|dump|capabilities|discover\fR
Low\-level field access.
.TP
.B completion \fBbash|zsh|fish|install\fR
Print shell completion scripts, or install completion for the current user.
.B completion install
auto\-detects bash, zsh, or fish; use
.B \-\-shell
to choose explicitly and
.B \-\-force
to overwrite a different existing user completion file.
Completion support for zsh and fish is interactive shell integration only; the
command runtime remains bash.
.SH POWERSHELL MODULE
The repository also ships a native PowerShell 7+ module at
.IR powershell/DenonAvrController/DenonAvrController.psd1 .
It exposes the Bash command surface through PowerShell functions and the
.B Invoke-DenonCommand
migration shim. It supports shared config/cache behavior, raw/data helpers,
HEOS helper integration, snapshots, profiles, presets, watch-event style polling,
and PowerShell completion metadata where practical. Avahi/ARP discovery and the
full Bash dashboard renderer remain shell-specific.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DENON_IP
Override auto\-discovery with a fixed IPv4 address.
.TP
.B DENON_MAX_VOLUME_DB
Maximum volume
.B vol
will accept (default: 0 dB).
.TP
.B DENON_CURL_INSECURE
Set to
.B 0
to make curl verify HTTPS certificates with normal system trust.
The default is compatibility mode, equivalent to
.B 1 ,
which passes
.B \-k
because many AVR receivers use self\-signed or locally untrusted certificates.
.TP
.B DENON_CURL_CACERT
Path to a CA certificate or certificate bundle passed to curl with
.BR \-\-cacert .
For example:
.B DENON_CURL_CACERT="$HOME/.config/denon/avr-cert.pem" denon status
.TP
.B DENON_CURL_PINNEDPUBKEY
Pinned public key value passed to curl with
.BR \-\-pinnedpubkey ,
for example
.B sha256//BASE64HASH
or a local key file path.
For example:
.B DENON_CURL_PINNEDPUBKEY='sha256//...' denon status
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/denon_ip
Cached receiver IP.
Written by
.B discover
and
.BR setip ;
deleted on each new
.B discover
run.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/bash-completion/completions/denon
Per\-user bash completion target used by
.BR "denon completion install" .
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/zsh/site-functions/_denon
Per\-user zsh completion target used by
.BR "denon completion install" .
The directory may need to be present in
.BR fpath .
.TP
.I ~/.config/fish/completions/denon.fish
Per\-user fish completion target used by
.BR "denon completion install" .
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
denon status
denon vol \-35
denon tv
denon status \-\-json | jq .mainZone.volumeDb
DENON_IP=192.0.2.10 denon off
denon dashboard-alt \-\-provider auto
denon dashboard-alt \-\-provider direct \-\-json
denon dashboard-alt \-\-compare-providers
denon completion install
denon completion install \-\-shell bash
denon completion bash > ~/.local/share/bash\-completion/completions/denon
systemctl \-\-user enable \-\-now denon\-mpris.service
.EE
.PP
After installing completions, restart the shell or reload completion for that
shell.
.SH AUTHOR
Tiffany Von Arnim <tiffany.vonarnim@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR denon\-mpris (1),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR avahi\-browse (1)
.PP
Project: https://github.com/tiffany98101/denon\-avr\-controller
